# Self-storage stochastic modelling exercise

This is a collection of scripts used to clean, analyse, and model the data for a self-storage facility. The data has not been included for privacy reasons. Note: a lot of the code here is incredibly rough: junk snippets should be expected and it is unlikely that the code will work out of the box.

## Scripts used for modelling

### unitlist.py
This is the class used to save the state of the facility. It is largely initialised based on the included .json files, however the initialisation is also not very consistent. It is updated by executing the methods `attempt_booking` and `move_out`.

### model.py, historical_occ.py
These two scripts run the same simulation with different starting conditions. Both scripts are very messy. The most useful thing here is probably the `run_simulation` function. 

## Scripts used for data cleaning/analysis

### average_stay.py
Generates the average lease period for each unit size available at the storage facility and saves it as the json file average_stay.json. Some junk code has been left at the bottom of the script.

### conversion_rate.py
Plots and saves a chart of average conversion rate by month. Units have not been considered individually.

## json files
In addition to the scripts described above, several json files have been included. These are generally either outputs of specific queries, or pre-processing scripts. They are used to load information into the model without running the query/pre-processing step again.

### available_units_default.json
Gives the number of units that exist at the storage facility for each unit size. This is based on the existing facility layout: no units have been added or removed.

### average_stay.json
Gives the average lease period for each unit size available at the storage facility. Values were generated by average_stay.py.

